---
date: '2025-01-01T22:03:45+06:00'
title: 'Importance of technological literacy and liberation'
author: "Sarzil Hossain"
tags: ['technology','freedom','technocracy']
---


### Table of Contents
- [Motive](motive)
- [Summary (tl;dr)](summary)
- [Our life depends on tech](our-life-depends-on-tech)
- [Issue with blind use](issue-with-blind-use)
- [Solution](solution)

### Motive
This article showcases the necessity to increase our knowledge and make use of our intellect before it is too late.

### Summary
The purpose of learning about technology is not only to acquire skills (Any skill can be aquired any point in life by dedicating time), but to understand, question, and investigate the entity that has gained complete control over our lives.

### Our life depends on tech
Many people just disregard technology, IT as insignificant fields. But that is far from the truth. Technology at present is literally our life.
1. Communication: Using software like Messenger, WhatsApp, Discord to speak to your friends and relatives.
2. Cloud Storage: Storing all your images, files, data on "free"/paid cloud providers like Google Drive, iCloud.
2. Source of information: Acquiring all news, articles, blog posts online.
4. Entertainment: Watching YouTube videos, Twitch streams, scrolling social media.
5. Education: Online classes, online exams, online courses, discussion groups.
6. Work: The software you use, the money you earn (cards/crypto), the way you apply for jobs (unless you do manual labor).
7. Photography: Taking photos of everything you do, everyone you meet, every food you eat.

All our activities that used be done manually in the past moved on the internet. Therefore, whoever you are, whatever your profession might be, your life and the life of everyone around you depends on tech.

### Issue with blind use of tech
These are only, a few of the social issues (ignoring other aspects) of trchnology in our lives. The following points are self-evident from observation:
1. Loss of capabilities: As our life continues to become easier, we will forget how to do difficult things manually. For example, air fryers remove the necessity of cooking. How do you project people's ability to cook food in future? Already many people just order food online. Think of examples in other fields.
2. Decreasing social skills: People, specially, those in the newer generation are becoming anti-social, that is they no longer know how to communicate. Ask your parents/grandparents if such a thing existed in their period. People are more alone and miserable than ever.
3. Necessity of constant dopamine: A significant portion of our generation need to scroll social medias whole day, have earphones plugged into their ears. It is severely harmful for our mental and physical health. A study conducted by Professor D. Adams at Uconn showcases there is a 70% higher chance of getting schizophernia in teenagers who use mobile phones for more than 4 hours a day.
4. Increased possibility of faking informatiom: Do you know that I made up the previous statistic? You probably believed me without any research. Because of the internet, it is much easier to spread false information much faster. And even then, many research papers can be falsified which people accept as arguments without question.
5. Demoralization: Morality, ethics are decreasing, and corruptive behavior and practices are entering in "our" culture. Do kids in our age have same level of respect towards our mentors like our past generations did?

Worst of all, social media and video game addiction and other things are becoming normalized in our society. Which means, even if you want to escape from the postive feedback loop, you might not have anyone to support you. Even many parents who spoke against mobile phones in past spend a significant porion of their time on the internet.

If you think you are free from these issues/if you ignore these issues/if you just decide to ignore these tjings and keep doing your job, maybe even run a huge startup after graduating from Harvard, these issues would still exist and affect you or your kids or their kids, unless we acquire knowledge about it and try to stop it.

### Solution
Society isn't developed by paranoids. It's developed by individuals who can think clearly and critically. Whether you agree with us or not, you have to think about these issues deeply and try to come to your own conclusions. 

The first step of the solution is to gain knowledge about tech. But the knowledge shouldn't just be to "setup X" or "do Y" but also knowledge about the overall impact of "Z" in our lives. Because technology, in its present state, has the capability to directly influence our beliefs and even culture and for decades have served as a political weapon for whatever party that carries it.
